# The TAME Toolkit for Introductory Data Science, Chemical-Biological Analyses, Predictive Modeling, and Database Mining for Environmental Health Research

Environmental health research is becoming increasingly reliant upon computational and data science methods that can more efficiently extract information from exposure science, toxicology, and public health studies. These in silico methods can be leveraged to better identify relationships between exposures to chemicals in the environment and human disease outcomes. Still, there remains a critical gap surrounding the translation of data science methods in the training of environmental health researchers, particularly on topics of data management and analysis.

We aimed to address this critical gap by developing publicly available, online training modules, to provide opportunities to learn about code development and data analysis through applications-driven examples in environmental public health.

Training modules were developed using example environmental health research datasets, that were organized and analyzed through annotated script formatted for R/RStudio coding language and interface. Training modules include descriptions on how to set up a coding environment in R, introduction to scripting, and basic strategies for organizing and manipulating data. Exposure science, toxicology, and epidemiology-based examples are provided for finding and visualizing trends in big data, multi-omics analyses, toxicokinetic modeling, dose-response modeling, predictive modeling, mixtures analyses, generalized read-across, and analyses leveraging data from well-known databases relevant to environmental health. These modules were built to include clear explanations of each analysis and associated script. Training modules and associated data are publicly available online through an organized Github Bookdown site (https://uncsrp.github.io/Data-Analysis-Training-Modules/index.html).

Together, this resource provides a unique opportunity for researchers to obtain introductory-level training on data analysis in R through applications-based examples within environmental health research.
